---
layout: posts
---

# A4: Adding Persistence

date: 2021-10-11

## GitHub Link: [Todo App Code](https://github.com/tophbuddy/cs5520_cholzheu_projects/tree/main/CS5520/TodoApp)
## Play Store Link: [Todo CJH](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=edu.neu.khoury.madsea.chrisholzheu)

## Project Summary

In this milestone, I was supposed to refactor my app using the recommended app architecture and add database persistence to the app using the Room persistence libary.

## Project Status

I unfortunately was not able to implpement what was required for this milestone so I will continue to work on it and update this blog post once I've implemented the aforementioned components.
I've added the necessary classes ,started to implement a recycler view to replace my list view and I am trying to start using fragments so I can utilize their re-usability.

## UPDATE

### App Status Update

I was finally able to get the app up and running with database persistence. I also redid the UI, implemented fragments, a recycler view, date/time pickers, and changed the app architecture. I followed a multitude of guides and examples online and found solutions on StackOverflow to get the app to work.

### Lessons Learned

From following examples online, I learned about implemented a factory design pattern for create todo objects, a class for binding objects, date/time picker widgets, and the clean app architecture for managing data using a room database, view model, and repository to persist data and enhance class encapsulation.

### Tasks Outstanding

I need to add functionality for using the reminder feature, update the app store page, and clean up my code.


